Re: NS10657
   Wavelength-specific refractive-index calibration of air at 1762 nm for
   environmental phase compensation in quantum optical interfaces
   by Wei Wu, Tobias Sch\"{a}tz, and Ulrich Warring

Dear Wei Wu,

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to Physical Review Applied. We appreciate your interest in our journal, and your trust as we consider your work.

We have completed this round of review of your manuscript, and the reviewer comments are attached. They have raised substantial issues. We ask that you address these concerns through major revisions and provide a clear, detailed response so that we may proceed with further consideration.

Another referee was asked to review the paper, but we now assume no report will be received.

We strongly prefer to base our decisions on more than one opinion, but in this case we feel that we ought to proceed. We will seek a new opinion in the next round.

Please use https://authors.aps.org/Submissions/ if you resubmit. Be sure to include a complete response to the reviewer comments, a marked-up PDF of the manuscript showing changes, and a list of those changes. We only need the PDF file of the manuscript, not the TeX or Word source file or figure files.

Yours sincerely,

Qiao Qiao, Ph.D. (she/her/hers)
Associate Editor
Physical Review Applied
Email: prapplied@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prapplied

NEWS FROM THE PHYSICAL REVIEW JOURNALS

PRApplied is your home for significant, practical advances in QIST,
photonics, spintronics, metamaterials, etc.
https://go.aps.org/qist

Announcing PRX Intelligence
https://go.aps.org/4pFrs50

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Referee -- NS10657/Wu
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this article, the authors have shown a long-term refractive index measurement
of air at 138Ba+ clock transition wavelength using a dual wavelength Michaelson
interferometer for refractive index calibration in trapped ion experiment. They
have shown that the generic atmospheric refractivity formulations don’t provide
precise refractive index near the molecular absorption wavelength, which is
necessary to accurately compensate the phase error from air dispersion.  The
article is largely clearly written and the result will likely be valuable to the
community, especially to the trapped ion community working with 138Ba+.

However, we would recommend addressing the following comments before publication
in Physical Review Applied. The first point below is the most critical, in that
it may affect the main claim of the study.

1.	The authors have used BME280 sensor which has a specified relative humidity
accuracy of +/- 3% The main claim of the paper is that the Mathar model differs
by about 20% from the measurement here, but Fig. 2 shows example data where RH
varies by roughly 1%. It appears that if the BME 280 sensor had an inaccuracy
such that a 1% absolute RH swing was reported as 1.2%, it would drastically
alter the results of the study -- it is not clear that the specs of the sensor
rule this out this level of inaccuracy. It seems critical that the authors can
justify that the ~1%-level RH swing as measured by the sensor is accurate to
well below 20% fractional uncertainty -- can this be demonstrated?

2.	The introduction motivates the work in terms of optical interconnects that
between trapped-ion quantum nodes, requiring phase stable links. However, many
schemes for remote entanglement generation are insensitive to phase fluctuations
on the connecting optical paths, see e.g. doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.91.110405
and doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.124.110501. It would be valuable if the authors
more clearly specify what schemes they refer to, where phase-stable links are
critical.  

3.	In the manuscript, the authors mention that the residual phase error
compensation projects a single qubit gate infidelity error below 3e-4, though
this seems to rest on assumptions about the single-qubit gate mechanism that are
not stated. For example: Raman gate or microwave gates don’t depend on the phase
error of the clock transition wavelength. Please specify the kinds of gates
these claims are relevant to.

4.	The caption of table 1 mentions uncertainties, however uncertainties are not
included in Table 1. Please include the uncertainties on the reported values
within the table. Is the sensor’s accuracy truly good enough to include as many
significant figures are included in the reported –1.3152e-8  RH coefficient?  

5.	In the regression analysis, the environmental sensor uncertainties are taken
as gaussian; but is unclear from the manufacturer spec that the 3% on the BME280
sensor corresponds to a Gaussian variance. Can this be justified? If not
acknowledging the assumption would be helpful.

6.	The authors used a linear model to fit temperature, pressure and humidity
coefficients and compared it to the Mathar model. However, Mathar model as
described e.g. in 10.1088/1464-4258/9/5/008 contains cross terms and higher
order terms among temperature, pressure and humidity, which are not considered
in the manuscript. Can the authors explain why only a first-order treatment is
needed here, in comparison to the Mathar model? It also seems this could affect
the comparison to the Mathar model -- the apparent discrepancy in the
first-order sensitivity could be explained by the additional higher-order
dependencies in the latter model, which do not seem to be quoted e.g. in Table
I, but are presumably part of the Mathar Model calculations. Clarification on
this point would be critical to the main claim of the paper.

7.	Please check for abbreviations that are not defined. Two examples:
•	ULE in Fig.1, Fig. 1 caption and in line 86 without specifying the full form.
•	OLS in the first paragraph of the supplementary material